We're seeing the
mathematical definition
of the cost function.
Now, let's build some intuition
about what the cost
function is really doing.
In this video, we'll walk
through one example to see how
the cost function can be used to
find the best parameters
for your model.
I know this video's little
bit longer than the others,
but bear with me, I
think it'll be worth it.
To recap, here's what we've
seen about the cost
function so far.
You want to fit a straight
line to the training data,
so you have this model, fw,
b of x is w times x, plus b.
Here, the model's
parameters are w, and b.
Now, depending on the values
chosen for these parameters,
you get different
straight lines like this.
You want to find values for w,
and b, so that
the straight line fits
the training data well.
To measure how well
a choice of w,
and b fits the training data,
you have a cost function J.
What the cost
function J does is,
it measures the difference
between the model's predictions,
and the actual
true values for y.
What you see later,
is that linear regression would
try to find values for w,
and b, then make a J of w
be as small as possible.
In math, we write it like this.
We want to minimize,
J as a function of w, and b.
Now, in order for us to
better visualize the
cost function J,
this work of a
simplified version
of the linear regression model.
We're going to use
the model fw of x,
is w times x.
You can think of this as taking
the original model on the left,
and getting rid of
the parameter b,
or setting the
parameter b equal to 0.
It just goes away
from the equation,
so f is now just w times x.
You now have just
one parameter w,
and your cost function J,
looks similar to
what it was before.
Taking the difference,
and squaring it,
except now, f is
equal to w times xi,
and J is now a function of just
w. The goal becomes a little
bit different as well,
because you have just
one parameter, w,
not w and b.
With this simplified model,
the goal is to find
the value for w,
that minimizes J of w.
To see this visually,
what this means is
that if b is set to 0,
then f defines a line
that looks like this.
You see that the line passes
through the origin here,
because when x is 0,
f of x is 0 too.
Now, using this
simplified model,
let's see how the cost
function changes as you choose
different values for the
parameter w. In particular,
let's look at graphs
of the model f of x,
and the cost function J.
I'm going to plot
these side-by-side,
and you'll be able to see
how the two are related.
First, notice that
for f subscript w,
when the parameter w is fixed,
that is, is always
a constant value,
then fw is only a function of x,
which means that the
estimated value of y depends
on the value of the input x.
In contrast, looking
to the right,
the cost function J,
is a function of w,
where w controls the slope
of the line defined by
f w. The cost defined by J,
depends on a parameter,
in this case, the parameter
w. Let's go ahead,
and plot these functions,
fw of x, and J of w
side-by-side so you can
see how they are related.
We'll start with the model,
that is the function
fw of x on the left.
Here are the input feature x
is on the horizontal axis,
and the output value y
is on the vertical axis.
Here's the plots of three
points representing
the training set at positions 1,
1, 2, 2, and 3,3.
Let's pick a value
for w. Say w is 1.
For this choice of w,
the function fw,
they'll say this straight
line with a slope of 1.
Now, what you can do
next is calculate
the cost J when w equals 1.
You may recall that
the cost function
is defined as follows,
is the squared error
cost function.
If you substitute fw(X^i)
with w times X^i,
the cost function
looks like this.
Where this expression is
now w times X^i minus Y^i.
For this value of w,
it turns out that the error term
inside the cost function,
this w times X^i minus
Y^i is equal to 0 for each
of the three data points.
Because for this data-set,
when x is 1, then y is 1.
When w is also 1,
then f(x) equals 1,
so f(x) equals y for this
first training example,
and the difference is 0.
Plugging this into
the cost function J,
you get 0 squared.
Similarly, when x is 2,
then y is 2,
and f(x) is also 2.
Again, f(x) equals y,
for the second training example.
In the cost function,
the squared error for
the second example
is also 0 squared.
Finally, when x is 3,
then y is 3 and f(3) is also 3.
In a cost function
the third squared error
term is also 0 squared.
For all three examples
in this training set,
f(X^i) equals Y^i for
each training example i,
so f(X^i) minus Y^i is 0.
For this particular data-set,
when w is 1,
then the cost J is equal to 0.
Now, what you can do on
the right is plot
the cost function J.
Notice that because
the cost function
is a function of
the parameter w,
the horizontal axis is
now labeled w and not x,
and the vertical axis
is now J and not y.
You have J(1) equals to 0.
In other words, when w equals 1,
J(w) is 0,
so let me go ahead
and plot that.
Now, let's look at how
F and J change for
different values of w. W can
take on a range of values,
so w can take on
negative values,
w can be 0, and it can take
on positive values too.
What if w is equal
to 0.5 instead of 1,
what would these
graphs look like then?
Let's go ahead and plot that.
Let's set w to be equal to 0.5,
and in this case,
the function f(x)
now looks like this,
is a line with a
slope equal to 0.5.
Let's also compute the cost J,
when w is 0.5.
Recall that the cost
function is measuring
the squared error or
difference between
the estimator value,
that is y hat I,
which is F(X^i),
and the true value,
that is Y^i for each example
i. Visually you can see that
the error or difference
is equal to the height
of this vertical line here
when x is equal to 1.
Because this lower line is
the gap between the actual value
of y and the value that
the function f predicted,
which is a bit
further down here.
For this first example,
when x is 1, f(x) is 0.5.
The squared error on
the first example is
0.5 minus 1 squared.
Remember the cost function,
we'll sum over all the
training examples in
the training set.
Let's go on to the
second training example.
When x is 2,
the model is predicting f(x) is
1 and the actual
value of y is 2.
The error for the second
example is equal to
the height of this little
line segment here,
and the squared error is
the square of the length
of this line segment,
so you get 1 minus 2 squared.
Let's do the third example.
Repeating this process,
the error here,
also shown by this line segment,
is 1.5 minus 3 squared.
Next, we sum up all
of these terms,
which turns out to
be equal to 3.5.
Then we multiply this
term by 1 over 2m,
where m is the number
of training examples.
Since there are three
training examples m equals 3,
so this is equal to
1 over 2 times 3,
where this m here is 3.
If we work out the math,
this turns out to be
3.5 divided by 6.
The cost J is about 0.58.
Let's go ahead and plot that
over there on the right.
Now, let's try one
more value for
w. How about if w equals 0?
What do the graphs for f and J
look like when w is equal to 0?
It turns out that
if w is equal to 0,
then f of x is
just this horizontal line that
is exactly on the x-axis.
The error for each example is
a line that goes
from each point down
to the horizontal line that
represents f of x equals 0.
The cost J when w equals
0 is 1 over 2m
times the quantity,
1^2 plus 2^2 plus 3^2,
and that's equal to
1 over 6 times 14,
which is about 2.33.
Let's plot this point
where w is 0 and J
of 0 is 2.33 over here.
You can keep doing this
for other values of
w. Since w can be any number,
it can also be a negative value.
If w is negative 0.5,
then the line f is a
downward-sloping line like this.
It turns out that
when w is negative
0.5 then you end up with
an even higher cost,
around 5.25, which is
this point up here.
You can continue computing
the cost function for
different values of w and
so on and plot these.
It turns out that by
computing a range of values,
you can slowly trace out
what the cost function J
looks like and that's what J is.
To recap, each value of
parameter w corresponds to
different straight line fit,
f of x, on the
graph to the left.
For the given training set,
that choice for a value
of w corresponds to
a single point on
the graph on the right
because for each value of w,
you can calculate the
cost J of w. For example,
when w equals 1,
this corresponds to this
straight line fit through
the data and it also
corresponds to this
point on the graph of J,
where w equals 1 and the
cost J of 1 equals 0.
Whereas when w equals 0.5,
this gives you this line
which has a smaller slope.
This line in combination with
the training set corresponds to
this point on the cost function
graph at w equals 0.5.
For each value of
w you wind up with
a different line and its
corresponding costs,
J of w,
and you can use these points
to trace out this
plot on the right.
Given this, how can you
choose the value of
w that results in
the function f,
fitting the data well?
Well, as you can imagine,
choosing a value of
w that causes J of w
to be as small as possible
seems like a good bet.
J is the cost function that
measures how big the
squared errors are,
so choosing w that minimizes
these squared errors,
makes them as small as possible,
will give us a good model.
In this example, if you were to
choose the value
of w that results
in the smallest
possible value of J of
w you'd end up
picking w equals 1.
As you can see, that's
actually a pretty good choice.
This results in
the line that fits
the training data very well.
That's how in linear regression
you use the cost function
to find the value of
w that minimizes J.
In the more general
case where we had
parameters w and b
rather than just w,
you find the values of w
and b that minimize J.
To summarize, you
saw plots of both
f and J and worked through
how the two are related.
As you vary w or vary
w and b you end up
with different straight
lines and when
that straight line
passes across the data,
the cause J is small.
The goal of linear
regression is to find
the parameters w or w and
b that results in
the smallest possible value
for the cost function J.
Now in this video,
we worked through
our example with
a simplified problem using
only w. In the next video,
let's visualize what the
cost function looks like for
the full version of linear
regression using both w and b.
You see some cool 3D plots.
Let's go to the next video.